detailing of clubs:-



1. Fine Arts:

What we are:
Fine Arts and Modelling club is one of the official clubs of NIT Kurukshetra. It is the hub of artists who come together to ameliorate and sustain art culture in the college. And while doing the same, it provides ample opportunities to those with artistic inclination to hone and flaunt their skills with art and craft.
What we do:
To uphold the motive of preserving the art culture, Fine Arts and Modelling club turns the college premises into a piece of art during fests. Counting a few endeavours that the club takes on-
Backdrop: During Confluence, the annual cultural fest of NIT Kurukshetra, the club members undertake a month-long project of painting a huge canvas to be stretched out across the background at Open Air Theatre.
Wall Paintings: FA club paints The Wall (Apollo wall) during Confluence, for which the members work for days. In the end it's all worth the efforts because it takes the aura of the fest to a whole new level. With the colors so bright, wall paintings are undoubtedly overwhelming.
Anamorphic art- It is the art of deception that gets one's eyes into believing a 2dimensional painting to be a 3- dimensional lively scene. Apart from the walls, even the ground doesn't miss the symphony of colors. An art of perception, anamorphic art finds its way on the pathway near OAT and in the market.
Art Gallery- An exhibition of artworks is organized wherein art submissions of students from and even outside college are there. It is a perfect platform for an artist to showcase his work not just to the students but to the faculty members who, quite zealously, visit art gallery on Confluence.
During the fests (viz. Confluence, Talent show, Utkarsh), Fine Arts club organizes various competitions for students to flaunt their artistic skills- Abstract painting, monochromatic painting, Rangoli making, still life, face painting to name a few. With the serene dance of colors all around, the campus is draped by the aurora that never fails to render the viewers spellbound.

Why join us:
We intend to enkindle that spark of creativity in an individual which is a relish not just for the sake of art but for enjoying its beauty in life. Alongside the hectic schedule that we as engineers have, everyone needs an escape to look into the world in a different way, a better way, that transcends all rationality that we hold. Here, at Fine Arts, we strive for everyone to find their escape into this aesthetic little world of ours.
How to join us:
The members are inducted officially by the Secretary of the club under the supervision of the professor-in-charge and range from all years, irrespective of their branches. Apart from that, the competitions organised by the club are an open door for that matter. Fine Arts inductions: Contact us-Parag Agrawal(Secretary)9728430471,Ankit Abhinav(Secretary)9728426177, Smriti Gupta(Secretary)8570849585,Om Ashish(Secretary)7206460804
Facebook Links:
facebooklink artgallery (links :- facebook- https://www.facebook.com/faclubnitk , art gallary- https://www.facebook.com/artgallerynitk )






2. Photography:
This is the official club of NIT Kurukshetra responsible for covering all the events during various fests (like Confluence, Techspardha, Talent Show), guest lectures, seminars, etc. Apart from photography, the club indulges in movie making, video editing, app designing, graphic designing (Photoshop) and web designing. The club is a conglomerate of photography enthusiasts who teach and mould students in photography, video making and designing skills.
The club also organizes various fun events during cultural fests like Confluence (the annual cultural fest of NIT Kurukshetra) and Talent Show. Events like Impressions (story depiction through pictures), Shutterbug (theme based photography), Cinematography (Short movie making), Capsun (Caption Writing), etc. that not only test one's photography skills but also the person's creativity. The flagship events include Limelight, the much loved fashion photography event and Photo Scavenger Hunt, a treasure hunt with pictures. The members of the club are very enthusiastic about learning and developing new skills and expanding their creativity. Individuals who are hardworking, dedicated and creative are the best fit for our club, in addition to those who have a prior knowledge in photography, videography, designing or editing.
To know more about us, visit our official Facebook pageFacebook and Facebook and our Instagram handle @photog.nitk. Check out our work at our YouTube channels: "Confluence NIT Kurukshetra" and "Photography Club NIT Kurukshetra". Mail us at: photo.nitk@gmail.com. For any queries, inbox us
Secretaries, Photography Club: Adil Hashim (Ph: 7206212680), Vibhansh Saini (Ph: 9728434787), Anushka Jaikishan.

(links 1st-https://www.facebook.com/PhotographyNITkkr/   , 2nd - https://www.facebook.com/Conflu/   )




3. Music & Dramatics:
Music and Dramatics Club has an important role to play in various fests and pre-shows of NIT Kurukshetra and is the principle organizer of dance, music, dramatic events of annual cultural fests and pre-shows for year-long.
Do you dance or sing or act? If yes, we will give you the stage and opportunities, be it a solo or group talent we set an event for all.

Independence Day
Republic Day
Mr. and Miss. Fresher
Solo/ duet / group / folk dance
Choreo
Instrumental Solo
Battle of Bands
Solo / Duet Singing
Hindi / Western Singing
Fashion Parade
Mime
Nukkad
Ekanki
Monoacting

The life at NIT Kurukshetra boasts of a wonderful cultural life with inter and intra college fests like Confluence and Talent how and Music and Dramatics Club being the organizer for all the onstage events.
To put a boundary to our work, our major tasks are:

Event Planning
Stage Management
External Publicity
Hospitality
You may find us behind the stage, juggling with things to make sure they don't fall and the event doesn't go off the track. Nope, we don't always work behind the curtains, we also coordinate with various other colleges of the North India for publicity of the fests and also their teams are welcomed and guided by our hospitality team. To say the least, we do the ESM (Event Stage Management), EP(External Publicity) and manage all the hustlea2 behind cultural fest. Be updated about all the upcoming cultural events by your Facebook's news feed, follow our page: Facebookpage. To know more, follow us at: facebook2. Secretaries, Music and Dramatics Club:Anmol Bhatia(9752811144),Lakshita Dodeja(7404277648),Lalit Burrak(9416579941),Sanjana Annamaneni(9728430252)

(links -1st(facebook) - https://www.facebook.com/MadNitkkr/     2nd- facebook2- //www.facebook.com/Conflu/   )







4. LIT & DEB
Hindi LIT & DEB:
Description

English LIT & DEB:
ELAD:
The English Literary and Debating Club (ELAD) is an official club of NIT Kurukshetra responsible for organizing literary, oratory and quizzing events. ELAD conducts workshops and miscellaneous activities to impart good communication skills to the students of our college. Some of these initiatives include:

ELAD Day (2015-16), informal sessions of debates, book and movie reviews, compering etc are held every fortnight.
Personality Development Workshop (2015, 2016-2017), which included sessions of debating, group discussion, speaking, official writing as well as sessions concerning competitive exams like GRE and GMAT.
ELAD aims to inculcate the values and craft of public speaking, debating, quizzing and writing to all students of NIT Kurukshetra. The events organized by ELAD for the fests 'Talent Show' and 'Confluence' includes:
Debate: A contest of speaking skills analyzing preparedness and confidence.
Model Parliament: A single member event based on parliamentary style of debating.
Brainstorm: A team quiz event where topics range from sports to history to any discipline under the Sun.
Prodigy: A single member quiz event, often quoted as the most challenging quiz of NIT Kurukshetra.
India Quiz: A team quiz event on topics related to India.
Sports Quiz: A team quiz event on sports.
Entertainment Quiz: A team quiz event on movies, music, TV etc.
Word-o-philia: A single member event to check a person's vocabulary and verbal reasoning.
Creative Writing: A single member event wherein participants may write prose or poetry.
Extempore: A single person event to check a person's quick-wittedness and oratory skills.
ELAD also has a strong online presence catering to reading and quizzing appetite of the college and beyond, reaching people all over the country. The club is active on various social media sites like Facebook.


links(1st- https://www.facebook.com/eladnitkkr/  )    





5. Students Activity Club:
It's the major, managerial club of the college which plays the most important role in the organization and overall management of the both the cultural fests namely, Talent Show and Confluence. SAC plays a prominent role in bringing life to the heart of the institute i.e. AE Lawns, by organising fun events including all the games at the stalls, the stage and the DJ during the Fests.
DJ Night at AE Lawns, Talent Show'17. Then, SAC has a lot with it to offer a platform for various genre like:

Mathematica
Treasure hunt
Beg Borrow Steal
Gully cricket
Street Soccer
Masterchef
And most importantly, our flagship events:
Student of the year
Roadies
Sherlock Adventures
Some online events for the techies:
9 baj gaye kya
Meme Contest
Online Treasure Hunt
Online Roadies
Along with these, SAC also undertakes responsibilities for-
Maintaining the decorum and preventing any disputes during the fests.
The Art Work that pops up during the fests at various locations in the institute, along with other clubs.
Publicizing and increasing the reach of our fests in other institutes, along with the others.
SAC works its way out of hell for bringing the title sponsors and conducting the major attraction of Confluence, THE STAR NITE, which has been graced by stars like:
Nikhil D'souza
The Local Train
Jassi Gill and Babbal Rai
Maadhyam
Mustafa Zaid
Euphoria, among many others
By being part of the club, you garner varying qualities and discover your existing strengths and develop new ones. With ample opportunities and the right platform made available to explore and nourish each of your inherent characteristics, you will definitely regret not being a part of the most prestigious team.
To know more about us, visit our Official Facebook page: https://www.facebook.com/sacnitkkr Still want to know more!!, visit our Facebook page: Facebook. Secretaries, Students' Activity Club:Anshul Verma(9728431667),Kashish Suri(9671556901),Lakshay Arora(7206697009),Nehal Aggarwal(7206210584).

(links- https://www.facebook.com/Conflu/ )




PG Club:
The Post Graduate's Club is one of the official clubs of NIT Kurukshetra. We, a team of post-graduation students, helps and guides the students to subsist the on-going events in the premises and outside as well. PG club helps you to interact with other branches of the institute and to develop in all aspects. The Club also organizes various events during the major fests of the institute i.e. 'Talent Show' and 'Confluence', namely Chessmate: An event for the young minds with great strategies having the facet of playing chess. Bollywood Blockbuster: A team quiz like event on Bollywood movies, music etc. Travesty: Impromptu caricature art event for all the aspiring artists. IPL Betting: For cricket lovers, it's not just an event but life. Splitsvilla: It's a team event where people get a chance to show not only their strength and intellect but also reverent heart. So on and so forth… A total of almost 70 members including MCA, MBA and M.Tech students actively participate in the functions of the club. The first and the foremost task that the club undertakes is to ensure the involvement of all the post-graduate streams. Besides this, the Invitation and Reception Committees are what comes under the work of PG Club. The club is responsible for getting ID cards to the working members as well as the external participants during the Major Fest and have the honor to welcome the delegates. To know more, visit our Facebook page: Facebook. SECRETARIES and MEMBERS: aniket chourasia(8115538778),Kushagra richhariya(9174064157).

links(facebook:- 
https://www.facebook.com/Conflu/,

Instagram:-https://www.instagram.com/pgclub.nitkkr?igsh=MTMyN283eXp2cjJqMw== 
)



HTC:
Hiking and trekking club as the name proposes, is in charge of sorting out Trips, Excursions and Adventure Activities close by conferring learning about Safety, Health and Environment. We as a group for the most part concentrate on the Overall advancement of the understudies i.e. from comprehensive Management aptitudes to powerful Health. By offering presentation to different and unrehearsed requests on different outings, HTC sustains and give better shape to one's Character and Personality. HTC likewise adds to the Cultural Fests of NIT Kurukshetra i.e. CONFLUENCE AND TALENT SHOW. HTC composes different workshops for the most part identified with Safety and Health rules amid a trek. HTC is adding to society likewise by raising certain social issues like Women Empowerment, bestowing Educational Skill sets particularly to individuals living in sloping ranges. For more subtle elements, allude to our Facebook page www.facebook.com/htcnitkkr For more details, visit us at:Facebook. SECRETARIES, HIKING AND TREKKING CLUB tushar shingla (9416730994) shiven (8901108899) vibhuti dembi (9711664251)


links:-https://www.facebook.com/Conflu/ facebook

Instagram:- https://www.instagram.com/htc.nitkkr?igsh=MWZzZDAwZDF3bTB5


AVA:
AVA (Audio Visual Aid):
Audio Visual & Aid Club is a Student's Club of National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra. It mainly focuses on the Sound and Light System Handling of Jubilee Hall, AE Lawns and OAT along with other areas of college during national level cultural fest CONFLUENCE and technical fest TECHSPARDHA. However, it also aims to provide a platform to the interested students who want to learn, develop and improve their knowledge for Sound and Lighting under the guidance of senior club members. The credit for the remixes played at AE Lawn during the Fests goes to the members of the AVA club. Also the light and sound handling during the performances in the Jubilee Hall is done by the members of AVA Club. The AVA Club is heavily involved in all the institute activities. It also organizes various events related to Music and Sound effects during cultural fests (Confluence and Talent Show). Thus, inviting the students to show their talents. It also aims to provide sufficient guidance to the students and help them to show their talent in the world of Music and Lights. To know more, visit us at Facebook

links:- https:/www.facebook.com/Conflu/ facebook

https://www.instagram.com/ava.nitkkr?igsh=MWE0dXVmcWZubTE4Nw==





Spicmacay:
SPICMACAY (Society for the Promotion of Indian Classical Music and Culture Amongst Youth) is a non-political nationwide voluntary movement that organizes programs of classical music and dance, folk arts, crafts, yoga, classic cinema screenings and much more inside the schools and colleges throughout the world to make students more aware about the Indian and world heritage. It was founded by a renowned professor of IIT Delhi, Dr. Kiran Seth in 1977. SPICMACAY in NIT Kurukshetra, is an official club which provides a great platform for all the talented performers. The club is not just an exquisite platform to showcase the talent but also an opportunity to grow and learn from other fellow performers and enhance their pre-acquired skills. It also organizes various workshops where famous and approachable artists are invited to learn more and improve. Apart from this SPICMACAY has organized and been a part of many events and workshops namely

Performances for Independence day, Republic day, Women's day, Unity day and Inaugurations for various fests
Workshop on music, dance and drama
Organised a workshop conducted by some devotees of LORD KRISHNA, from ISKON. They chanted many success mantras throughout and motivated youngsters for promoting work responsibilities and entrepreneurship
Event organized by SPICMACAY for Talent Show
NIT's Got Talent- an approach to bring out an amalgam of all the new and unique talents The club has its own you tube channel youtubechennal. Facebook pageFacebook. SPICMACAY performs on inauguration of various fests. This is the performance (a combination of Sri Lanka's folk dance, classical, lavani, bollywood and bhangra all in one go) on inauguration of talent show. The Facebook page is updated with all the regular events of the club. Some of the Performances given by our students on various occasions: SPICMACAY also gave a performance in NIT's market during 'utkarsh' fest, where many melodious voices mesmerized the audience. A member of Spicmacay playing drums during utkarsh fest in NIT's market. Pt. Vishwa Mohan Bhatt during Inauguration of Confluence'17 Performance on inauguration of annual technical fest of the college. Instrumental performance. Members of SPICMACAY performing on Independence day and Republic Day. Performance on inauguration of Confluence 2017.

links:-facebook :-https://www.facebook.com/spicmacaynitkkr/
youtube :- https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCav3u4EWFKY_LdXfI2QVomg
Instagram :- https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCav3u4EWFKY_LdXfI2QVomg
